# Anatomy of a Play 2.0 application

## The standard application layout

The layout of a Play application is standardized to keep things as simple as possible. A standard Play application looks like this:

```txt
app                            --> Application sources
  `-- assets                   --> Compiled asset sources
        `-- stylesheets        --> Typically lesscss sources
        `-- javascripts        --> Typically coffeescript sources
  `-- controllers              --> Application controllers
  `-- models                   --> Application business layer
  `-- views                    --> Templates
conf                           --> Configurations files
  `-- application.conf         --> Main configuration file
  `-- routes                   --> Routes definition
public                         --> Public assets
  `-- stylesheets              --> CSS files
  `-- javascripts              --> Javascript files
  `-- images                   --> Image files
project                        --> sbt configuration files
  `-- build.properties         --> Marker for sbt project
  `-- Build.scala              --> Application build script
  `-- plugins.sbt              --> sbt plugins
lib                            --> Unmanaged libraries dependencies
logs                           --> Standard logs folder
  `-- application.log          --> Default log file
target                         --> Generated stuff
  `-- scala-2.9.1              
        `-- cache              
        `-- classes            --> Compiled class files
        `-- classes_managed    --> Managed class files (templates, ...)
        `-- resource_managed   --> Managed resources (less, ...)
        `-- src_managed        --> Generated sources (templates, ...)
```

## The app/ directory

The `app` directory contains all executable artifacts: Java and Scala source code, templates as well as compiled assets sources.

There are three standard packages in the `app` directory, one for each layer of the MVC architectural pattern: 

- `app/controllers`
- `app/models`
- `app/views`

You can of course add your own packages, for example an `app/utils` package.

> Note that in Play 2.0, the controllers,models,views conventions are now really conventions only and can be changed if needed (such as prefixing everything with com.yourcompany).

There is also an optional directory called `app/assets` containing compiled assets such as [[Less sources | http://lesscss.org/]] and [[CofeeScript sources | http://jashkenas.github.com/coffee-script/]].

## The public/ directory

Resources stored in the `public` directory are static assets that are served directly by the Web server.

This directory is split into three standard sub-directories: for images, CSS stylesheets and JavaScript files. You should try to organize your static assets like this to keep all Play applications consistent.

> In the default created application the `/public` directory is mapped to the `/assets` URL path, but you can easily change that, or even use several directories for your static assets.

## The conf/ directory

The `conf` directory contains all configuration files for the application.

There are two main configuration files:

- `application.conf`, the main configuration file for the application. It contains standard configuration parameters.
- `routes`, the routes definition file.

If you need to add configuration options specific to your application, it’s a good idea to add more options to the `application.conf` file.

If any library needs a specific configuration file, try to file it under the conf directory.

## The lib/ directory

The `lib` directory is optional and contains unmanaged library dependencies, ie. all jar files you want to manage manually outside of the build system. Just drop any jar files here and they will be added to your application classpath.

## The project/ directory

The `project` directory contains the **sbt** build definitions. 

- The `plugins.sbt` file defines sbt plugins used by this project.
- The `Build.scala` file defines your application build script.

## The target/ directory

The `target` directory contains everything generated by the build system. It can be useful to know what is generated here:

- The `classes` folder contains all compiled classes (from both Java and Scala sources).
- The `classes_managed` contains only the classes that are managed by the framework (such as the classes generated by the Router or the Template system). It can be useful to add this class folder as an external class folder in your IDE project settings.
- The `resource_managed` contains generated resources, typically compiled assets like lesscss and coffescript compilation results.
- The `src_managed` contains generated sources, like the Scala sources generated by the template system.

## Typical .gitignore file

Generated folders should be ignored from your VCS. Here is the typical `.gitignore` file for a Play application:

```
logs
project/project
project/target
target
tmp
```

